DEVELOPMENT.md, before:

# Development

This doc explains the development workflow so you can get started [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) to Kritis!

## Getting started

First you will need to setup your GitHub account and create a fork:

1. Create [a GitHub account](https://github.com/join)
1. Setup [GitHub access via
   SSH](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/)
1. [Create and checkout a repo fork](#checkout-your-fork)

Once you have those, you can iterate on kritis:

1. [Run your instance of kritis](docs/install.md#Installing-Kritis-to-your-cluster)
1. [Run kritis tests](#testing-kritis)

When you're ready, you can [create a PR](#creating-a-pr)!

## Checkout your fork

The Go tools require that you clone the repository to the `src/github.com/grafeas/kritis` directory
in your [`GOPATH`](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/SettingGOPATH).

To check out this repository:

1. Create your own [fork of this
  repo](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/)
2. Clone it to your machine:

  ```shell
  mkdir -p ${GOPATH}/src/github.com/grafeas
  cd ${GOPATH}/src/github.com/grafeas
  git clone git@github.com:${YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME}/kritis.git
  cd kritis
  git remote add upstream git@github.com:grafeas/kritis.git
  git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
  ```

_Adding the `upstream` remote sets you up nicely for regularly [syncing your
fork](https://help.github.com/articles/syncing-a-fork/)._

## Testing kritis

kritis has both [unit tests](#unit-tests) and [integration tests](#integration-tests).

### Unit Tests

The unit tests live with the code they test and can be run with:

```shell
make test
```

:warning: These tests will not run correctly unless you have [checked out your fork into your `$GOPATH`](#checkout-your-fork).

### Integration tests

On a GCP project where Kritis has already been installed (follow [instructions](docs/install.md)), this will prepare a new cluster named `kritis-integration-test`:

```shell
make -e GCP_PROJECT=${PROJECT} setup-integration-local
```

NOTE: the `PROJECT` here is from the installation instructions environment
variable.

As you develop, you can build new test images and run the integration test on demand:

```shell
make -e GCP_PROJECT=${PROJECT} integration-local
```

NOTE: you'll be charged for using GCP resource to run integration tests. See [Free Tier](https://cloud.google.com/free) for information on how to try out GCP. Alternatively, you can choose to have the integration tests run as part of the PR instead. Fixes to the testing infrastructure to address this problem are WIP.

## Creating a PR

When you have changes you would like to propose to kritis, you will need to:

1. Ensure the commit message(s) describe what issue you are fixing and how you are fixing it
   (include references to [issue numbers](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/)
   if appropriate)
1. [Create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/)

### Reviews

Each PR must be reviewed by a maintainer. This maintainer will add the `kokoro:run` label
to a PR to kick of [the integration tests](integration), which must pass for the PR
to be submitted.

Commit message:

Add reminders to join kritis-users mailing list in docs.

DEVELOPMENT.md, after:

# Development

This doc explains the development workflow so you can get started [contributing](CONTRIBUTING.md) to Kritis!
Before get started, don't forget to join the [kritis-users mailing list](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/kritis-users)!

## Getting started

First you will need to setup your GitHub account and create a fork:

1. Create [a GitHub account](https://github.com/join)
1. Setup [GitHub access via
   SSH](https://help.github.com/articles/connecting-to-github-with-ssh/)
1. [Create and checkout a repo fork](#checkout-your-fork)

Once you have those, you can iterate on kritis:

1. [Run your instance of kritis](docs/install.md#Installing-Kritis-to-your-cluster)
1. [Run kritis tests](#testing-kritis)

When you're ready, you can [create a PR](#creating-a-pr)!

## Checkout your fork

The Go tools require that you clone the repository to the `src/github.com/grafeas/kritis` directory
in your [`GOPATH`](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/SettingGOPATH).

To check out this repository:

1. Create your own [fork of this
  repo](https://help.github.com/articles/fork-a-repo/)
2. Clone it to your machine:

  ```shell
  mkdir -p ${GOPATH}/src/github.com/grafeas
  cd ${GOPATH}/src/github.com/grafeas
  git clone git@github.com:${YOUR_GITHUB_USERNAME}/kritis.git
  cd kritis
  git remote add upstream git@github.com:grafeas/kritis.git
  git remote set-url --push upstream no_push
  ```

_Adding the `upstream` remote sets you up nicely for regularly [syncing your
fork](https://help.github.com/articles/syncing-a-fork/)._

## Testing kritis

kritis has both [unit tests](#unit-tests) and [integration tests](#integration-tests).

### Unit Tests

The unit tests live with the code they test and can be run with:

```shell
make test
```

:warning: These tests will not run correctly unless you have [checked out your fork into your `$GOPATH`](#checkout-your-fork).

### Integration tests

On a GCP project where Kritis has already been installed (follow [instructions](docs/install.md)), this will prepare a new cluster named `kritis-integration-test`:

```shell
make -e GCP_PROJECT=${PROJECT} setup-integration-local
```

NOTE: the `PROJECT` here is from the installation instructions environment
variable.

As you develop, you can build new test images and run the integration test on demand:

```shell
make -e GCP_PROJECT=${PROJECT} integration-local
```

NOTE: you'll be charged for using GCP resource to run integration tests. See [Free Tier](https://cloud.google.com/free) for information on how to try out GCP. Alternatively, you can choose to have the integration tests run as part of the PR instead. Fixes to the testing infrastructure to address this problem are WIP.

## Creating a PR

When you have changes you would like to propose to kritis, you will need to:

1. Ensure the commit message(s) describe what issue you are fixing and how you are fixing it
   (include references to [issue numbers](https://help.github.com/articles/closing-issues-using-keywords/)
   if appropriate)
1. [Create a pull request](https://help.github.com/articles/creating-a-pull-request-from-a-fork/)

### Reviews

Each PR must be reviewed by a maintainer. This maintainer will add the `kokoro:run` label
to a PR to kick of [the integration tests](integration), which must pass for the PR
to be submitted.
