cmd/kritis/kubectl/plugins/resolve/README.md, before:

# resolve-tags

resolve-tags replaces tagged images in your Kubernetes yamls with their corresponding digests, and prints the new manifest to STDOUT.
It can be run as a binary or installed as a kubectl plugin.

## kubectl plugin

To install as a kubectl plugin, run:

```
make install-plugin
```

in the top level directory.

You can then run the plugin:

```
kubectl plugin resolve-tags -f <path to file>
```

To apply subsitutions using `kubectl apply -f`, you can run:
```
kubectl plugin resolve-tags -f <path to file> --apply true
```

## resolve-tags binary

resolve-tags can also be run as a binary.
This is useful if you want to pass in multiple files at a time.
To build the binary, run:

```
make out/resolve-tags
```

in the top level directory.

You can then run the binary:

```
./out/resolve-tags -f <path to file> -f <path to another file>
```
To apply subsitutions using `kubectl apply -f`, you can run:
```
kubectl plugin resolve-tags -f <path to file> -a
```
This will apply the digest to the objects defined in file.

Commit message:

Release resolve-tags plugin (#182)
* Release resolve tags plugin

* Typos in readme

* fix cloudbuild release for plugin

* fix shell commands for installing plugin

cmd/kritis/kubectl/plugins/resolve/README.md, after:

# resolve-tags

resolve-tags replaces tagged images in your Kubernetes yamls with their corresponding digests, and prints the new manifest to STDOUT.
It can be run as a binary or installed as a kubectl plugin.

## Installation

## macOS

```shell
curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/resolve-tags/latest/resolve-tags-darwin-amd64.tar && \
  RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR=$HOME/.kube/plugins/resolve && \
  mkdir -p $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR && tar -C $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR -xf resolve-tags-darwin-amd64.tar && \
  mv $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR/resolve-tags-darwin-amd64 $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR/resolve-tags && \
  sudo cp $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR/resolve-tags /usr/local/bin/
```

## Linux

```shell
curl -LO https://storage.googleapis.com/resolve-tags/latest/resolve-tags-linux-amd64.tar && \
  RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR=$HOME/.kube/plugins/resolve && \
  mkdir -p $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR && tar -C $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR -xf resolve-tags-linux-amd64.tar && \
  mv $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR/resolve-tags-linux-amd64 $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR/resolve-tags && \
  sudo cp $RESOLVE_TAGS_DIR/resolve-tags /usr/local/bin/
```

## Quickstart

### Running the resolve-tags kubectl plugin

You can run the plugin as follows:

```
kubectl plugin resolve-tags -f <path to file>
```

To apply subsitutions as you would using `kubectl apply -f`, you can run:

```
kubectl plugin resolve-tags -f <path to file> --apply true
```

Note: The plugin can only resolve one file at a time.
If you need to resolve more than one file at the time, consider using the binary.

## Running the resolve-tags binary

You can run the resolve-tags binary as follows:

```
resolve-tags -f <path to file> -f <path to another file>
```
To apply subsitutions using `kubectl apply -f`, you can run:
```
resolve-tags -f <path to file> -a
```
This will apply the digest to the objects defined in file.
